THE YOUNG PRACTITIONER

[A Valedictory Address delivered to the Graduating Class of the
Bellevue Hospital College, March 2, 1871.]


The occasion which calls us together reminds us not a little of that
other ceremony which unites a man and woman for life.  The banns have
already been pronounced which have wedded our young friends to the
profession of their choice.  It remains only to address to them some
friendly words of cheering counsel, and to bestow upon them the
parting benediction.

This is not the time for rhetorical display or ambitious eloquence.
We must forget ourselves, and think only of them.  To us it is an
occasion; to them it is an epoch.  The spectators at the wedding look
curiously at the bride and bridegroom; at the bridal veil, the
orange-flower garland, the giving and receiving of the ring; they
listen for the tremulous "I will," and wonder what are the mysterious
syllables the clergyman whispers in the ear of the married maiden.
But to the newly-wedded pair what meaning in those words, "for
better, for worse," "in sickness and in health," "till death us do
part!"  To the father, to the mother, who know too well how often the
deadly nightshade is interwoven with the wreath of orange-blossoms,
how empty the pageant, how momentous the reality!

You will not wonder that I address myself chiefly to those who are
just leaving academic life for the sterner struggle and the larger
tasks of matured and instructed manhood.  The hour belongs to them;
if others find patience to listen, they will kindly remember that,
after all, they are but as the spectators at the wedding, and that
the priest is thinking less of them than of their friends who are
kneeling at the altar.

I speak more directly to you, then, gentlemen of the graduating
class.  The days of your education, as pupils of trained instructors,
are over.  Your first harvest is all garnered.  Henceforth you are to
be sowers as well as reapers, and your field is the world.  How does
your knowledge stand to-day?  What have you gained as a permanent
possession?  What must you expect to forget?  What remains for you
yet to learn?  These are questions which it may interest you to
consider.

There is another question which must force itself on the thoughts of
many among you: "How am I to obtain patients and to keep their
confidence?  "You have chosen a laborious calling, and made many
sacrifices to fit yourselves for its successful pursuit.  You wish to
be employed that you may be useful, and that you may receive the
reward of your industry.  I would take advantage of these most
receptive moments to give you some hints which may help you to
realize your hopes and expectations.  Such is the outline of the
familiar talk I shall offer you.
